>> Kyle Simpson: What are we in for
in this course?
What are we looking at?
We're gonna start talking about
the carabiners, and the ropes, and
the knots, and the boots, and
all those fundamental equipment things
that let us do functional programming.
Here's a quick overview of what to expect.
We're gonna start first with functions cuz
any discussion of functional programming,
we probably need to understand functions
better, and here's a little bit of a hint,
you probably don't know
what a function is.
I certainly didn't until a couple of years
ago, I've been doing programming for
a long time and
I didn't know what a function was,
that's kind of basic thing
you are gonna start with.
So we are gonna actually dig in a function
way more than we used to probably,
we're gonna look at all different sizes.
We are gonna look at closure,
you've probably heard or
given at job interview at
some point what is closure.
I would venture to say it is impossible
to understand functional programming
without understanding closure.
I've heard many people say,
I understand functional programming and
what they mean is I'll use map and
reduce, that is a little piece of it.
That is one of the pieces of equipment
that we need, but it is not sufficient to
climb the mountain, closure is one of
the most critical pieces of the equipment,
in fact it'll enable almost
everything else that we do.
Now we're gonna look at composition,
the way that data flows and
is mapped through our applications,
we're gonna look at immutability,
how we manage the changes to values and
state over time,
management of state change is one of
the big key ideals of all programming.
Almost every framework, every programming
paradigm, they have some idea of what you
ought to do with managing state over time,
cuz that's what a program really is.
It's a state machine, it's managing state
over time, functional programming has
a very specific way of thinking about that
question, so we'll look at immutability.
Recursion is one that kind of scares
people similar to if I had thrown your
regular expressions,
[LAUGH] if I said regular expressions,
some of you would be like I don't
wanna do regular expressions.
[LAUGH] It's okay,
recursion is useful and important.
Not that you can solve every
problem with recursion, but
you shouldn't be scared of it.
It's a very useful tool and
it's especially useful to
the functional programming.
Then we will finally actually get
to look at the map filter reduce,
that thing that everybody calls functional
part and we're going to look at that and
where it fits in, but you won't understand
or appreciate where it fits in,
unless you've got these other
pieces of equipment ready to go.
>> Kyle Simpson: And all of that will have
taken us to the question of how do we
operate on, in a functional way,
how do we operate on values right now,
values that we have right now?
But guess what?
Our programs all have values now, and they
all have values they will have at a later
time, there's always a time component.
So how do I apply functional
principles over time?
How do I do asynchronous programming?
And there's lots of ways
to answer that question but
the one specific way we're gonna answer
that in this course, is we're going to
look at adapting functional principles
over time with observables, okay?
And we'll end the course by
taking a look at just a few,
of the libraries that you might choose
to use when you wanna go out and
start doing your own functional
programming and you need a library with
helpers to help you do that, and
we'll look at a few of those,
some of the popular ones and a few others,
and that's where we'll end the course.
So that's what to expect
It's a deep journey, okay so
buckle your seat belt because
there's a lot to get through.
>> Kyle Simpson: Before
we jump into the course,
you should definitely hear my
thoughts on code readability.